So, yeah, my name is George I'm a software engineer at Posit and I want to talk about Positron Assistant
I
Realized, you know, there's been lots of demos yesterday today. We had James just earlier
Joe and Hadley's keynote was yesterday
Which I really recommend going and watching if you want a general idea of Posit's approach to Gen AI
So I thought what I would do instead since I don't really have enough time to properly show all the different features of Positron Assistant
Is just take a minute step back and just go. Okay. What about people in the audience who are saying you've convinced me
How do I get started? So that's what I'm going to show today. So I have Positron open. I've got some some script
And I'm going to show you how to just get started get logged in and get Positron Assistant set up because it's actually still in
Preview, which means there's no big arrow in the app that says here are the Gen AI features
You got to turn it on and to do that
You want to open the command palette command shift P and search for settings
Spell it correctly and open the settings in there search for Positron Assistant
Enable something like that and that's the setting you're looking for there
Where it says enable Positron Assistant and AI system for Positron. Notice the preview badge. That is why you have to do this
Take that box and you're pretty much good to go
What you need to do now though is restart Positron
I'm not going to do that. I'm going to show you a little developer trick
If you open up that command palette again and go down to search for reload window
Nice little trick there to do essentially the same thing at this point Positron Assistant is available
And it would be in the side panel if I wasn't zoomed in if I zoom out slightly you can see there's a little Positron
Assistant icon and if you click on that
You get to Positron Assistant now
As a few people have mentioned currently in the version of Positron that is available
We have anthropic and get a copilot as LLM providers
So what you need to do is actually log in to those LLM providers to power these LLM based
Gen AI features of assistant if you're not logged in there'll be a big button there that you can click and it takes you straight
to the right place
Now we are working on very soon having github copilot also providing chat interface
but currently
It provides completions in the editor only and anthropic is used for for the chat panel
So to get the full Positron Assistant experience today
The best thing to do is log into both and that does mean getting an anthropic API key
Now to do that
There's a few ways you if you have an organization that has some agreement with anthropic. You can probably get an API key that way
Otherwise you go to the anthropic website sign in follow their docs to get a developer account and grab an API key that way
Now once you have one paste it in the box hit sign in and you're good to go
GitHub copilot very similar
The only difference is you don't really need a key
There'll be a sign in button you click on that it opens a web browser
And you log into github in the usual way and that will get you logged in with github
Okay, we are working on adding more providers. I believe in the further future
There'll be open AI compatible endpoints as well as enterprise accounts like AWS, but but currently this is this is where we are today
right
Let's get started. So some demos. Let me explain
Why is positron assistant better than other coding assistance that you might find in the extension store?
And in my opinion, it's all because of the context
It's it's the fact that
Positron system has been designed to plug into all those extra features that we've added to positron to make data science great
It knows about the console. It knows about the variables pain James showed that earlier
It knows about the plot window you can't ask it if you have a plot you can say take a look at my plot
And tell me about it and it can do that
All of this context engineering is what makes positron assistant
So nice to use because you can ask it a question in natural language, and it knows what you mean
So what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna close this and I'm just gonna open the welcome window just to get things
There we go back to where we were before
I'm gonna load some data. So let's have empty cars, right? So I've just loaded empty cars in the console
I know that's very small, but it's not so important for this demo. In fact, let me just close that. There we go
That's better
And then I'm gonna say
About the data and again, you know, you've probably seen demos like this in the lounge and earlier today
But the point is is that I don't have to say tell me about empty cars
I don't have to say tell me about the data
I've just loaded positive on assistant will use that context that I just talked about
To generate its answer. It kind of just knows what you mean, and that's really nice
So here you can see it shown. It's saying okay. Here's some information about empty cars
I was probably already in the data set, but it knows how to use it
Now at this point I could run this code, but let me give you another example of this
Let me go back to this script that I had open and try and run it
And what you'll find is in the console at the bottom there
There's an error now if you've programmed in our before you can probably pretty quickly be able to realize what that error is
But not everybody is an expert data scientist, you know, people are new people inherit scripts from other people
Sometimes it's one minute before zoom meeting and a cat walks on the keyboard
You know and you have to get this fixed quick things happen if I ask assistant
Open up a new window and just say you know, can you fix this error for me?
It will know what I mean
And it will go away
Read that error message in the console and say oh, I know what's wrong. Yeah, you need you need a tilde
Yeah, you need this to be a lambda function. You know, you however you want to describe it. You need this to be a function
Great
Okay, so you might think okay. So positron system can help me fix errors. That's nice. Why why doesn't it just do it?
And that's the next thing I want to show you with the introduction to positron system is the different modes and James
Briefly hinted on this in the last demo
There's three modes currently in positron assistant ask edit an agent now ask is the simplest of the modes
it's kind of like logging into you know, chat GPT or
Or Claude on the web
Without any kind of extra settings or fancy things it you can ask questions. It'll give you answers
It'll give you code, but it can't run code for you and it can't edit your files. It's a very simple
Back and forth and some people prefer that workflow and that's fine
If you wanted to give assistant more power, you can switch to edit mode
And what edit mode does is it gives it a few extra tools in particular?
It lets it edit files in your workspace that you have open
so now
Rather than just telling me what the error is. I can say, okay. Can you please fix that for me?
And it should hopefully go away do it now this is quite a small file with just a small error, so
This you know, we could have just read that answer and gone in there and fixed ourselves
But you know, this could be a 2,000 line
Workflow this could be you know
This this might have changes that are at the top of the file at the bottom of the file
You know not localized to one place
Not the case here, but it could be so it's really nice in that case to have these sort of diff views where you have
Nice tools that already built into the editor to show where and how the code has been changed. So let me keep that change
Has it worked? Yes, it has. It's fixed the problem
Now I want to talk about agent mode briefly
but before I do I just want to show you a little flourish of magic that I like about assistant and that's it's not
actually in the chat panel, but
Once you've made a change like this if you use git and you turn assistant on a little button appears in the git pane
So that when you make a change you can press that button and it will write a commit message for you
Now that sounds simple, you know, how much time is that save me 30 seconds, whatever, but you know, don't don't sleep on this
It's actually a really nice feature like just removing those little things that slow you down in the day
Just feels really nice. And I think that's what we're aiming for with some of these features
Okay, I'll commit that
No stage is commit. That's because I did things in the wrong order, but we got it. Okay agent mode
Agent mode is far more powerful. It has access to all of the available tools in positron
It has access to a bunch of tools that are third-party provided if you have extensions installed
You can even add MCP servers. I believe in the latest builds of positron
This is much closer to something like Claude code or these sort of software engineer
Targeted coding assistance
Where you will run these tools in a loop and the agent is allowed to then read the output and then continue and iterate
Over and over running these tools. I won't do it here because last time I did it it took 10 minutes, but
If I wanted to I could take these five scripts and tell positron assistant in agent mode
please turn this into an R package and
You know, it will go away and spin it will write documentation it will add our oxygen commands it will even write
tests using test that and then it will run in the console dev tools test and
Check that those tests are running and doing what they expect
In this case in this particular run
It actually found a problem with its own code that needed to be fixed in the terminal and it did that it ran terminal code
To move files into the correct place and it finally ran dev tools check everything's happy
And it came back to me with a bunch of check marks saying okay, I'm ready to submit to CRAN
I wouldn't submit to CRAN, but you know it tried its best
The point here is that
With this you could really do a lot very quickly
And you kind of I just want to say, you know, this is possible and it's amazing what these models can do
But also what I didn't show here was me clicking. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes every time
The code the model wanted to run some code or run a terminal command
I read that terminal command made sure it did something reasonable and then click to go
so, you know
One of the principles that we're trying to follow here is keeping a human in the loop as closely as possible to keep that human
loop really tight
So what we don't want to do is just say YOLO and you can go go go crazy like this example
But if you are willing to spend some time to read what the models want you to do work with the model
You can do some really great things. Okay, I'm gonna pass you on now. Thank you very much
All right, is this working okay great
Okay
Okay, I'm gonna be talking about data bot and if you saw Joe's
Keynote Joe's portion of the keynote yesterday that you know something about it
so in contrast to what George was strong with positron assistant data bot is more of like
it's more of a tool for exploratory data analysis, and it's it's more of like a
Like a partner to help you
Get that done
so
First things first. I'll show you how to install it
So for the to do that if you go to the extensions pane here
It is not it is not included with positron, but so you have to get the extension
It's because it's right now. It's in a very early research preview phase
So here you can search for extensions you type in data bot and it will come up here. No, I've already installed it, but
If you haven't installed it and you have to click it this will say install and you click on that
okay, so now after you've installed it you can launch it by saying open data bot and
The first time you do that zoom in here. They'll say data bots are not enabled. It must be enabled in the user settings
and
So there are a few steps for this
This is what we're doing at this stage to keep it
Make sure that people really want to use it before they get themselves before they start using it
Hopefully things won't well, hopefully things won't go wrong
But so we have to do here is you have to type acknowledged here this that this is a research preview
Enter okay now when I close this I open data bot again
It will come up here now. I've already in the middle of a session here, but you will probably see something like this
And
This is running live. I guess this is okay. It's streaming in okay
All right there we go
So it's a it'll say I'm data bot and it'll give you some suggestions about how to get started now for this particular
Demo here. I have already loaded some or I'm already in it. I've already downloaded data
This is from tidy Tuesday. It's from the tidy Tuesday repository. I clean this repository and
There's one that I thought was interesting
Or is it about measles
Measles yeah, so I'm in that directory and I have a little recording here to show
Because the
The speed that which it happens and what happens is a little bit unpredictable so I have this recording
So let's get started here
So this isn't a new session
And so I'm sorry let me back up for a second
So when data starts, it'll give you some suggestions about how to get started right and you can just click on them
So I clicked on
Help me import a data set a new data set from a file and
It goes and it looks what's available
and in this case, there's these two files these two CSV files, it's about measles cases and I
Ask it to load both of them
Okay, now again, this is massively sped up
Okay, so now it's loaded this data and
oh
I'm sorry. I
I'm acting like I can actually interact with this but I can't because this is a recording. I'm got confused there. I'm sorry
Okay
All right, so then I chose hey create some visualizations about showing disease patterns
So now it's gonna go do that and it will normally it'll try to use ggplot2 if you're using R
And you can see there's a disease trends over time and there's a big spike here which is interesting
And
Then it's decided to split up by region
And this is seasonal patterns like over the course of every year
Okay, and then I also provide the summary of like some of the findings here
It's not showing here. But sometimes
It gets very excited. Like when I did this I ran through this an earlier time
It said like well, this is a in certain countries. This is a catastrophic failure of the health care system, etc, etc
So that is an interesting thing that I had not seen before
sometimes these
These LLMs they start showing their personality that way and so you have to be you know
you have to be mindful that you have to you have to bring your own judgment to it and don't don't just
Take what everything that it says for granted
Now as it's doing this it's producing code and the code is that's that is really valuable because that is reproducible and that is
you know
It's not editorializing in the code. So I ask it now. Let's look for outbreaks
And again this it's sort of I'm just letting it fly through all this writing all this code and and do this stuff
When you're working with this, you will probably
Want to be more mindful and more careful on this, you know in the interest of time
I'm letting it sort of just go through these things. Oh, here we go. There it is
Major outbreak discoveries most devastating single outbreaks, etc, etc
All right, so this is so this is just a sort of a flavor of of what it can help you do and
Okay, next I asked it let's create it create a shiny app to explore the data
and
It will sit and spin here for a while while it's doing that again
I sped up this video and it might look like it's not doing anything for a while
But just that's what it does when it's it's writing a lot of code to a file
So this is the the dashboard that it created to help explore the data
Which is you know, every time I see these things I'm really surprised at how good they are. It's not it's not perfect
But it can get you very far and you'll have to bring your own skills and your judgment to sort of to sort of
Tweak these the things that it produces, but it does give you a good start
You can also ask it to make a report you slash report
That's a command and that will generate a quarter document
a quarter document describing the things that
That are sort of summarizing the things that it's done before
Okay, and it'll just stream it into this editor here and one thing to pay to be pay attention to is that at the top
It says this report is created using artificial intelligence under general human direction
So at the time of generation, the contents have not been comprehensively reviewed by human analysts and we think that's important
You know, you don't want to just generate one of these things and then send it off without
Without vetting it yourself and and and looking at like hey, is this is this good information to be put in here?
But again, it will get you started
All right, so that whole thing will stream into there
And
I will show you what that looks like
So I have it loaded up over here, so this is the report this is again
This is the same stuff that you saw before, right?
And that can be really helpful and you can also tell it to it will provide a proposal for the report that it'll make
And you can adjust it if you want before it actually goes and does it
Okay
Okay, now the last thing I want to show you right here
Is that you can ask it to save to a memory file the things that it's it's done. So
Back it up a little bit
There we go. So I
Clicked on the elephant icon there and I said and I clicked on save to memory file
And what that does is it it fills in the this
Slash save memory, that's another command and I give it a little bit more information save information about the structure and content of the data files
So it does that spins and it writes to a file called data bot MD and
Just to give you an idea of what's in there
Open it up. So it's a markdown file just summarizing this stuff and there's actually this is a lot of information
There's actually a lot more than I expected
But the purpose the usefulness of that is that if you start a new conversation
Then you can ask it what do you know about the data and
Now it's telling me stuff that it knows because it has the memory file not because I had to load the data this time
All right, and
I'll show you in positron here. I can look at
previous conversations here I can go back to them and
So
One last fun feature is that you can export it to you can export the conversation in this case I export it to HTML and
Then when I open that in the browser, this is actually that all that same content
That in the conversation saved in an HTML file and so you can save that
And and send it to somebody and it's all contained in a single file
Okay, so there you go, there's some other things that you can do state about
You
Hello everyone, my name is Tomas. I am very excited today to tell you about Ragnar
Let's say you open up an Elmer chat with GPT 5 and you ask it a simple question does Cordo support typist and
If you're lucky and you know about that verbosity parameter
you will
Get a short answer with a URL at the bottom that you can follow and find out it's all made up
It's wrong Cordo does support typist
If you're unlucky, then you'll get two pages of slop telling you to make a makefile
And you'll spin for ten minutes before you find out it's all wrong
So this is the hallucination problem and rag is a technique to address this
the
Core idea is quite simple
You take your trusted known to be correct information and you place it in context for the LLM to see
before it generates the final answer
and
Ragnar is an R package that helps you do that
It has a set of tools for creating document stores and then a set of tools for searching a document store or letting an LLM
search a document store
Ragnar works great with Elmer and shiny chat
If you hook it up with that, you'll get something like this you type does Cordo support typist
You'll see that the LLM now searches the document store
Retrieves the top 10 or 20 most relevant excerpts from the website and then it generates an answer. That's correct
Cordo
Doesn't or sorry Ragnar. It doesn't just work with
Elmer or if you're building your own R package, you can also hook it up to external LLM applications
so here for example, I have it working with open AI's codecs and
You see it has the search Cordo docs tool available being served by Ragnar so this is a way to augment other
Applications
All right. So here's all the code that you need to run to create a Ragnar store
For the Cordo docs. The first thing to notice is it's not a single function call
Ragnar tries real hard to be transparent so you can inspect all the intermediate steps
But it's not a lot of code so we can walk through it
The first step is you create a store under the hood a store is just a duck DB file
So you just say where you want it on the file system
You also pick an embedding function at the time that you create a store so here we're using an embedding model from open AI
embedding models are
basically functions that transform a piece of string or a
piece of text into a numeric vector and the magic of them is that similar meaning strings
Transform to similar vectors and this magic comes from machine learning
So embedding models are typically large things kind of like LLMs and you'll access them through a provider
In Ragnar we're using embeddings to do semantic search or that's what powers the search
But you can use embeddings for lots of other things, too
There are built-in functions for lots of major embedding providers
But I also want to point out you can provide your own embedding function. You're not gated by us implementing something
Once you've created your store, the next step is figure out what you want in that store
If you have a bunch of local files, you can just list them
If you want to scrape a website, you can use Ragnar find links and you'll get a nice character vector of URLs
This function has a lot of bells and whistles. It'll like validate links and stuff
And then once you have a list of all your documents
You're going to iterate through them one at a time and then for each one
The first thing you're going to do is you're going to call read as markdown
So read as markdown is a very wide funnel
You can throw almost anything at it and you can get back something that looks like markdown
And markdown is a great format for LLMs in general
Once you have your piece of markdown text, you want to split it into smaller chunks or excerpts
And for this function, for this task, Ragnar provides markdown chunk
And markdown chunks are basically just a bunch of text that you're going to put in a single file
And markdown chunk is quite a fancy function
I would describe it in a phrase as semantic boundary aware strided chunking
It tries to pick smart boundary positions so it doesn't cut off in the middle of a word, for example
Markdown chunk returns a data frame of start and end positions as integers
It returns the text and then it has one other trick that it does
It generates a context column so for every chunk it also assembles all the markdown headings
That are in scope for that chunk position
That really helps situate that excerpt for the LLM
Once you have your chunks, you insert them into the store
And then once you've done that for all your documents, you build your index
And now you're ready to search or hook up an LLM to do search
There's a couple ways you can do search
The highest level is using the function RagnarRetrieve
You give it a query and you get back a data frame of the most relevant excerpts
Under the hood, RagnarRetrieve does a lot
It does semantic search using the embedding vectors
It also does keyword search
It deduplicates all those results and de-overlaps them
You can scope the search and so on
If RagnarRetrieve does too much or too little for you
There are some lower level building blocks you can use
To do just semantic search or just keyword search
And then I want to point out that
If those functions also aren't quite at the right level of abstraction
Because this is a DuckDB store, you can write your own
You can do whatever you want
And then once you have your store and you want to equip an LLM
With the ability to search that store
It's two lines of code
Earlier, this is the code I used to generate the slop at the start of the talk
And this is what you need to equip that LLM
With the ability to search a store
This register tool function has a lot of useful patterns baked into it
It lets the LLM perform query rewriting
And it lets it do multiple searches
These are things that work great in practice
It tries to be context efficient
So it remembers what it already returned in this conversation
And avoids returning the same result again
It deduplicates and de-overlaps the retrieved excerpts
It also presents a very simple interface to the LLM
So it's hard for the LLM to call it wrong or make mistakes
Which is something you can see if a tool has a lot of arguments
And it formats the results very thoughtfully
To avoid or try to avoid confusing the LLM
Between what is text and what is user content
And what is metadata
Which comes into play when you're dumping a lot of retrieved results into context
One thing that we noticed as we were building this
Is that it's too easy to never inspect your store
Like you have this big ingestion pipeline
And you have these huge files
So we built an inspector
Where you can preview
Okay, what results are coming up with different search queries
At the top there
You can choose your search method
And also if you want to preview
Oh, what happened?
Preview different
Preview the chunks as either markdown or as raw text
There's another inspection tool that we added recently
Called the Store Atlas
And here you can have UMAP projections
And this is a great way to explore
What is clustering together
Which chunks are clustering together
Using my embedding function
You can click around
It's really quite a nice interactive tool
If you want to learn more about Ragnar
The first stop should be the documentation website
Ragnar.tidyburst.org
I also want to give a shout out to Sharon Machlis
Who is right in the audience over here
She's written a great article
Which was published in InfoWorld
Showing how to use Ragnar
And also put on a workshop for Ukraine
So thank you, Sharon
There's an example application
That I built at this URL
Called Cordo Help
Which lets you chat side by side
While viewing the Cordo docs
And this I wrote thinking
Please fork this
And then make a chat with docs
For what's important to you
I picked Cordo just because
It's the right size problem
But it's really to empower you
And that's Ragnar with Ragnar
Thank you
Don't look at my
Don't judge me
All right.
Hello, everyone.
I'm Carson.
And I'm excited to show you a little demo
Of this Python package called chatless today.
So let me get this a little bit more readable.
But if you were at the keynote yesterday afternoon
You might have noticed Hadley gave a little bit of a call out
To this Python package called chatless.
And mentioned it as being kind of the equivalent to Elmer
But in Python.
So both chatless and Elmer are going to give you a very
Similar user experience.
And so I'm going to show you a little bit of a demo
Of that.
So let me get this a little bit more readable.
But if you were at the keynote yesterday afternoon
You might have noticed Hadley gave a little bit of a call out
To this Python package called chatless.
And mentioned it as being kind of the equivalent to Elmer
But in Python.
So both chatless and Elmer are going to give you a very
Similar user experience.
And similar set of features.
And kind of the first main important thing that they allow
You to do is try lots of different models from lots of
Different providers.
And switch between them very seamlessly.
So kind of the getting started experience.
Kind of both in Elmer and chatless.
Is you choose a model provider.
So here I have some code to connect to open ai.
But this could just as easily be anthropic.
Or google.
Or maybe an enterprise setting.
For accessing these models.
Like aws.
Snowflakes.
Databricks.
Azure.
Lots of different environments in which you can connect to
These models.
And when you start a chat session.
There's kind of two main pieces of input that you're going to
Want to provide.
One is what sort of model do you want to use?
One is what specific model are you trying to use from this
Provider?
So here i'm choosing gpt 4.1 from open ai.
One nice thing about chatless.
In terms of an experience.
Some of these providers are actually going to provide type
Hints in terms of what models are available to you.
So i don't know if you've ever done this before.
But it's kind of a nightmare trying to figure out what is the
Right incantation for what model i'm trying to use.
So that's one thing.
The second thing is the system prompt.
So this is kind of the place for you as a developer.
To kind of customize the experience of the loam behavior
When it's one exercise.
It's got a ton of triggers that you have to do.
This is an abstract from quite a long time ago and plays really
Well in front of your only questions.
So when you're doing real interest, sort of smart question
Beings.
How is this tool going to pick out tags for lines to interact
With?
And give you incantation.
What's happening what?
So this is the experience of the loam behavior when it's
Responding to user input.
So in a real situation, this might include some context about
Your domain setting.
Or just some general instructions or a role for the
Loam to play during the conversation.
So in reality, this might be kind of a big complex piece of
File or information.
For here, we're just going to keep it real simple and fun and
Just say, you are zoidberg.
And if i want to, i should probably start from the top.
And one thing i can do straight away is drop straight into a
Shiny chat web interface.
This is really great for just kind of first exploring the
Capabilities of the model and getting a feel for what it's
Able to do.
So i can treat this kind of how you would treat chat gpt in a
Sense, where i can just start typing right away, teach me
Some python, for example.
And, you know, since this is interactive and web-based,
There's some nice fortises that come with this in the sense of
Like you get a little icon that you can click to copy to the
Clipboard if there's some code output in the response.
So that's great for a nice interactive experience where you
Don't have to really program to start interacting with a model.
But once you kind of go from that to actually trying to build
Something programmatically with the llm, the first one you're
Probably going to want to reach for is this chat method.
So i can submit some string input, and this is basically the
Same as submitting through the chat web interface.
The main difference here is, you know, i'm going to be
Running this at the console on the lower left-hand side, and
The nice thing about the chat method is it basically kind of
Assumes you're in an interactive setting, you're at the console,
You're maybe in a jupyter notebook, where it's convenient
To have the streaming output displayed right there as you
Submit input to the llm.
So not only that, if the model responds with markdown syntax,
Then you're also going to get some nice formatting and syntax
Highlighting right there in the console as well.
Similar to what we saw with databot, there is an ability to
Export the chat conversation to a standalone html file.
So i already have one saved here.
I think i actually have it in my browser as well.
So you can just run that export method, save it to an
Html file, and you get a similar kind of style as what
You get with the shiny chat interface.
You can also submit things like images or pdfs with your chat
Input, so the main thing here is you're going to want to use
One of the content helpers.
You can attach images from urls or local files.
You can also attach pdf files.
That won't work with, like, every model, but at least for
Models that support these kind of non-text inputs, you're able
To use these content helpers.
And here it's able to recognize, oh, this is actually an image
Of bender.
So that's great.
But an example of an llm limitation.
Again, this was kind of part of some of hadley's points in the
Keynote, where llms have this important limitation of kind of
A fixed cutoff date in terms of their knowledge set.
So brag is kind of one way to address this limitation in a
Sense.
Where, well, first, if i first ask this question, it's going to
Say, basically, i don't know what the current weather is in
Atlanta, georgia.
So rag would be some way of kind of providing additional
Context to a model to answer questions that they don't have
The knowledge for.
Another way of addressing this problem is supplying tools to
The llm.
And in this case, meaning, like, python functions.
And providing tools in chat list is quite easy.
Kind of the base requirements here is you're going to want to
Probably use type annotations on the input parameters so that
The model knows, like, what kind of input i'm allowed to
Provide as input values to this tool.
As well as a doc string to just generally kind of tell the
Model, both the model and yourself, like, what is this
Function useful for.
And also provides a kind of natural place to document
Parameters.
So i'm going to just take this function and register it with
My chat session.
And then ask the same question again.
And now we'll see in the output here some nice output
Suggesting that the llm has made a tool request.
And it's actually kind of inferred a latitude and
Distance for me based on the city location.
That's just kind of some of the magic of the llm.
But it's making the request.
And then the python session and chat list is handling the actual
Execution of that tool based on the request.
Getting the tool result, passing that back to the llm.
And then it takes that information and generates a
Response for me based on that tool result.
Another big feature is the ability to force the model to
Give you structured output.
Again, we saw an example of this in the keynote.
But the python way of doing this is to use the package.
Where i'm going to subclass a base model.
And in this case, i'm going to try to use this llm to do, like,
Some sentiment analysis.
So i'm going to define, like, three different fields.
A positive score, a negative score, and a neutral score.
Define this sentiment class.
And then use this slightly different method, chat
Structured, of providing the sentiment class to kind of tell
The llm this is kind of the actual data that i'm trying
To extract from the input.
And then here is an example of some text that i want
To extract a sentiment score from.
So i run that, and i get a positive, negative, and neutral
Score on this text.
I'm probably running out of time.
But i'll just mention there's one other method, a stream
Method, which is a little bit more programmatic interface.
Allows you to basically kind of program with the streaming
Output as it comes in from the model.
So this is just a real basic way to just kind of print out
The input as they're coming in.
But you can pretty easily integrate this with chat's
Shiny, shiny's chat ui component.
So these couple lines here is setting up a shiny chat
Interface, kind of similar to the one that you see in the
Window down here.
And then once i have the front end piece, i need to kind
Of define the back end piece where i take user input from
That chat component, send it to chat list to get the
Streaming response, and then send that streaming response
Into the shiny end.
And, yeah, that's all i have.
So thanks.
So i'm going to try and do some rapid questions here from
Slido before the stream goes dead in about three minutes.
But one anonymous one was, if writing, and i think this is
For you, george, if writing an academic research paper, is
The assistant useful for content and writing, or is it
Strictly for code assistance?
So i guess there's two ways to look at this, right, what the
Models are capable of and sort of what we've built around
That.
Certainly the models will try to write prose, and they're
Getting pretty good at it, but it's not what we've designed
Assistant for.
So these things will work, but you'll probably not get the
Best experience.
We really designed the system to be for those coding problems,
To have that tight loop of writing code and executing code
In positron itself.
What i will say is if you're working with data,
Particularly in an academic context, definitely lean more
Towards data bot because we've added more affordances in the
Prompting and the design of that system.
And i would also say sort of the longer you leave these
Models to just spin outputting text, the more off the rails
They go.
That's what i've generally found.
So you want to try and keep a really tight sort of leash when
You're generating sort of text.
At least with code, right, you can run it and verify things a
Lot easier.
It's funny, we're all talking in this little tiny microphone.
Will, i think this is for you, winston, will data bot
Incorporate survey weights if told to?
Will it incorporate survey weights?
I don't know if that's a specific technique.
I mean, it will do whatever you ask it to do as long as it is
Capable.
It will try to write code for that.
Does anyone know?
It would try to.
Okay.
One other data bot question.
Are there ways of using data bot features programmatically like
Generating reports?
There currently are not.
It is, so programmatically i'm guessing from r or python is the
Question.
There's actually not much to it in data bot.
It asks the lm to do it and then provides the lm with the tool
To write to a file.
So if you are interested in doing that, you can use chat list
Or lm and give it a tool to write to a file and it will be
Able to do those things.
And one last question in slido is, does ragnar support other
Vector stores other than duck db?
Not yet.
Thank you all who joined virtually.
We're going to stick around for some questions in the room here
But i know the stream is going to cut out.
Thank you all.